Topic 1.3 - Open Source Software and Licensing

Guided Exercises

1. What are - in a nutshell - the "four freedoms" as defined by Richard Stallman and the Free Software Foundation?

Freedom 0 declares that the user has the right to use the software as he wishes and for the purposes he wishes. No restriction or prescription should apply.

Freedom 1 determines that the user has the rigth to know the source code in order to study how it works and execute changes to readequate the purpose of the software. Access to the source code is a precondition for this.

Freedom 2 instates that the user has the freedom to redistribute copies, helping others and contributing to the community growth, increasgin the possibilities of further improvement by the community.

Freedom 3 grants to the user who modify a free software do distribute it and allow others to benefit from this, but it can only be done under the same freedom of the original software. The user cannot restrict the freedons of the original software.

2. What does the abbreviation FLOSS stad for?

FLOSS stands for "Free/Libre Open Source Software" which emphasizes that the software is free in the sense of liberty.

3. You have developed free software and want to ensure that the software itself, but also all future works based on it remain  free as well. Which license do you choose?

Creative Commons allows the user redistribute the scientific work with the condition that the author is referenced. Not this one.

BSD License is a "permissive" license which means it is more focused in widespread the software and left to the author to decide which obligations the derived projects must follow. Not this.

LGPL Lesse General Public License is a concession of the free software movement needed to allow the combination of free software with commercial software, so it is an exception to the copyleft concept. Not this.

GPL or General Public License declares that the derived work must follow the same feedons given by the license of the originaal software (copyleft concept). This one.

4. Which of the following licenses would call permissive, which would you call copyleft?

GPL is considered a copyleft license.

CC BY-SA - Creative Commons By Attribution Share Alike - declares that the work must be shared referencing the author and following the same restrictions of the original work. Is very similar to the copyleft principle but not necessarily applied to software. Copyleft

CC BY - Creative Commons by Attribution - declares that the work can be redistributed by referencing the author. As no restrictions are established, it is similar to permissive. Permissive.

Simplified BSD License is considered a permissive license which means it is focused on maixmize the distribution of the software and let the author decide which rights the user will have. Permissive

5. You have written a web application and published it under a free license. How can you earn money with your product? Name three possibilities.

Professional Services, Dual Licensing and Software as a Service

