Topic 2 - Finding your way on a Linux System

Guided Exercises

1. Use the man command to findo out what each command does:

ls - lists the content of a directory
cat - concatenates files and print them on sysout
cut - removes sections from each line of files
cd - changes the current directory to the speciefied directory
cp - copies files or directories
mv - moves ou rename files
mkdir - creates directories
touch - updates the last modified time of a file or create a file if it doesn't exist
wc - print a set of data for each file
passwd - update user authentication token (password)
rm - deletes files or directories
rmdir - deletes empty directories
more - provides text viewing one screen at a time
less - an improved more command
whereis - locates the binary, source and mand pages for a command
head - prints on sysout the first ten lines of a file
tail - prints on sysout the last ten lines of a file
sort - prints on sysout the sorted lines of a concatenation of a set of files
tr - translate or delete characters
chmod - changes the bits that controls the file access (reading, editing, executing and delete)
grep - print the lines that matches a pattern


2. Open the ls info page and identify the MENU.

- What options do you have?

	- Which files are listed
	- Sorting the output
	- General output formatting
	- Formatting file timestamps
	- Formatting the file names


- Find the option that allows you to sort the output by modification time

	- Sorting the output
	

3.Display the path to the first 3 README files. Use the man command to identify the correct option for locate.

"locate --limit 3 README"
"/etc/fonts/conf.d/README"
"/etc/fwupd/bios-settings.d/README.md"
"/etc/httpd/conf.d/README"


4. Create a file called test in your home directory. Find its absolute path with locate command.

"touch ~/test"

#since the search is executed on a database that is updated from time to time, it is required to force an update in order to the file recently created to be shown
"sudo updatedb"

"locate ~/test"


5. Did you find it immediatelly? What did you have to do in order for locate to find it?

#since the search is executed on a database that is updated from time to time, it is required to force an update in order to the file recently created to be shown
"sudo updatedb"


6. Search for the test file that you previously created, using the find command. What sysntax did you use and what is the absolute path?

"find ~ -maxdepth 1 -name test -print"
